There's a category of like entrepreneurs
might be a negative term, but someone
who thinks that they can just build a
business by with a single click, you
know, like it's effortless. Because I
bought this course, I now have the the
recipe to making a million dollars a
year as a side hustle. There's kind of
an anti pattern with AI right now where
I have 50 AI agents running my company
and I have a seuite of AI that tells me
what to do every day. I [music] think
that's the wrong approach. That's just
like you're making a slot machine. Slop,
not slot. Everyone on Twitter is like,
"I automated [music] everything and I I
don't do I work one hour a week and I
make $10 million on the weekend with my
[music] SAS app." Like, most of that is
just marketing. They're lying to you.
Uh, for the most part, you can sell hope
really easily. But you're selling this
vision of like skipping the hard work,
shortcutting directly to the value,
which will never happen. It'll never
work. But for the person who's selling
you that course, they're [music] going
to make a ton of money. They they found
the way to print money. My name is Max.
I'm the founder and CEO of Gum Loop. Gum
Loop is an automation platform [music]
that is automating about 4 million
workflows every day across huge
businesses like Instacart, Shopify, Door
Dash, Gusto.
We're a team of 15 [music] at this
point, scaling pretty quickly. What it
does is it lets people who really
understand a problem within a business
like the marketer or the salesperson or
the ops [music] person automate their
own work instead of having to spec it
out and explain it to an engineering
team to build that [music] solution for
them.
I went to McGill in Montreal. I studied
software engineering. Really liked doing
well in school. So, I put a lot of
effort into that. Um, studied all the
time. Tried to get the best grades I
possibly could. I remember [music] my
goal all throughout college was just get
a good job. I wanted to work in big tech
cuz I thought that would be the the
right path to follow. Realized pretty
quickly that I hated it. What most
people say when when [music] you're
thinking about starting a company is
like I'll just go to big tech for a
little bit. I'll learn a bunch and then
I'll do my own thing. I think that's uh
kind of cope in a way like a lot of
people say that they go and do it and
then they they [music] end up kind of
getting golden handcuffs and never
leaving and they never actually go and
start their own thing. I don't think
I've used anything I learned in big tech
in my startup at all. I think the only
thing working in big tech actually
provided is some sort of default respect
I guess from uh people when they they
realize you're not just a random person
like you actually had a company validate
that you're you're competent in some
way. So getting that logo on your resume
is is helpful a little bit. But I don't
think I learned anything novel when I
was there. A lot of the things that I do
now are motivated by the things I didn't
like at Microsoft. Most of the things I
do are the exact opposite of how they
work in big tech. what you can do when
you're 21, 22, 23 with no
responsibilities, no obligations to
anyone. Those are kind of years you can
never get back. And if you're spending
it just going to your 9 to5, logging in,
fixing a ticket, and then logging off,
you're kind of wasting those really,
really important years. If we're going
to do it, why don't we just do it now?
Figure out what the more reliable,
responsible thing to do later. I think
that was the right choice, just like
throwing ourselves into the ether and
seeing what worked.
I actually got deported from the United
States and banned for 5 years. But it
was nothing illegal or anything. I quit
Microsoft and then I moved back to
Vancouver. And my thought was like, I'm
just going to live in Vancouver for a
year, build stuff in my bedroom. And
then one weekend I was going to visit my
old roommates in Seattle and they were
like, the border people are like, where
are you going? Where are you staying?
What do you do? So they turned me around
at the border after a bunch of questions
cuz I I was suspicious. Basically, the
suspicion was that I was going to stay
for longer than I was saying, even
though I was just going to stay for 2
days. But that came with a 5-year ban
from the country. And then that was kind
of the moment where I realized I had to
build a company because I I had no
fallback plan. I decided to just take it
more seriously, build things that people
actually want, something that could make
money. I was pretty terrified, honestly.
I remember driving back from the border
to my girlfriend's apartment, just like
almost in shock. [music] It took me a
couple days to settle and calm down a
little bit, but after that, it was just
focus. I kind of just worked for the
next 6 months as hard as I could.
I tried everything like I was trying to
build anything that seemed remotely
valuable. Built a video game moderation
software in VR and then I did general
trust and safety tooling. I did bot
detection software um for web traffic, a
platform like an anti-cam platform. I
built a ton of stuff and then would make
an MVP and then try to sell it and see
if there was interest from the market.
Over and over I tried that kind of like
once a week. I had a different idea,
something I was experimenting with, and
then I'd learn pretty quickly that it
was a bad idea. The more I did it, the
more I got used to proving myself wrong,
and I I kind of learned the
counterintuitive fact that in startups,
you're actually chasing proving yourself
wrong. That's the best thing that can
possibly happen cuz you're saving weeks
or months of time. In the beginning, I
was building ideas for months and then I
would hope that someone would prove me
right and say this was worth building,
but that's the opposite of what you
should be doing. I wasted maybe 3 months
doing that. You should actually be
hunting for someone to tell you why this
won't work. If you can't find a reason
it won't work, then you actually have
some sort of tangible idea you should
pursue. If I could do it all over again,
I would be hunting for the strong reason
why something won't work instead of
hoping for the reason that might build
as much as you can. Like that's what
provides the most information. I don't
think I would have ended up building Gum
Loop if I didn't fail 10 times before
that. Talking to users as much as you
can, it's almost a a privilege you have
to earn because in the beginning you
won't have any users to talk to. you'll
be kind of begging people to try your
product, which is not a fun position to
be in, but something you have to kind of
go through. I think putting them at the
forefront of everything you're building,
even if uh they're saying things you
don't want to hear, your product sucks
or you're not building the right thing
or it's not solving my problem, that's
actually the most val valuable feedback
you can get. When I started working on
the current version of Gum Loop, that
was like one of the first days where I
stayed at the office till midnight
because I was so excited about what I
was building. Like I I couldn't get
enough of it. And that just kind of
compounds over time. Like if you find
that thing that will get you to work
until midnight and not want to close
your laptop, every day becomes easier.
You kind of just uh build this crazy
momentum that you can't get enough of.
Do you remember AutoGPT? There was this
super popular open source agent
framework. It kind of took Twitter and
the world by storm because it was the
first time that it felt like AI could do
something agentically and solve a
problem on its own. I saw it on Twitter,
tried it out. It was pretty amazing. I
didn't actually push the limits and see
how it would break. But in in the first
demo, it seemed really cool. So I joined
the Discord server which was growing
pretty exponentially at the time and I
would see all these people asking like
how what is GitHub? How do I use a
terminal? How do I install something
locally? What is a dependency? I
realized if I just solved that problem
for them and built this nice little UI,
then I mean I'm doing something
interesting. And my thought was I would
learn how to build a front end so it
would be a good use of time. I didn't
think it would become anything special.
But whenever anyone would ask in the
Discord server for help setting up their
local environment, I would send them a
link to AgentHub, which was the first
version of it. After building it for a
couple days, I was like, "Oh, this could
be like GitHub for agents. If agents are
useful, I could have the platform that
you host them on that you can interact
with them on." That idea kind of
crumbled after a few days when I
realized the agents weren't useful,
which was the the aha moment. I had a a
platform that people wanted to use, but
they were frustrated with because the
agents were so unreliable. So I kind of
gave them what they were secretly asking
for which is just reliability,
predictability. All of their use cases
were so simple that I thought I could
just build a framework that lets them
kind of automate the steps one after
another. And then that kind of just
naturally grew into this crazy
automation platform. It was for
developers because it was an open source
project. But the audience that really
went crazy for it were non-technical.
they were like business admins at a
company or ops people or HR people who
were just enthused about the idea of AI
actually solving a problem for them and
and automating their work. So realizing
that the actual audience was 80%
non-technical that was when I realized
like I need to build something that is
approachable for them that feels fun for
them to use that doesn't frustrate them
with all the complexity that was kind of
the motivation behind the the simplified
version of autograph. We got into IC 5
months before the batch started. For
that 5 months the product was still
completely free. We knew that we were
going to turn on pricing at some point.
During the batch, I think in the first
week, we turned on pricing. We made the
product $20 a month because we couldn't
imagine charging more than Chat GBT. But
our first paying customer was just this
guy named Kai who he paid $20. We
freaked out. It was like the greatest
moment ever. Uh seeing the Stripe
notification pop up. And then he's still
a user.
I was stuck in Canada during all of YC.
So, I had all of the pressure of needing
to build something amazing and live up
to just the expectations that we had for
being in YC, but I didn't have any of
the distractions. So, I was just in a
small studio apartment in Vancouver just
in my room coding as fast as I could. I
think we learned that staying focused
and and not getting distracted by like
the networking events and the the random
parties that people in tech host is
really powerful. Like the people who are
actually building something amazing are
not at those events. Like no, no one is
really networking if you're bu if you're
on to something. So, I think I've kept
that attitude going forward. Like, I
don't normally go to events for the most
part. My co-founder never goes to events
almost to a fault. Most people haven't
met him because he's just working all
the time. That's the biggest takeaway
that if you stay focused and you just
talk to users [music] as much as you can
like your network will emerge pretty
naturally. Fundraising like a lot of
people think you have to go out and
network in order to [music] find meet
these investors and convince them about
your idea, but if you build something
exceptional, they will actually come to
you. It's not actually not that
complicated. You just have to show them
that you'll succeed without them and
then you'll be the one getting the email
telling them to wait. That was probably
the biggest realization during YC that
it's not that complicated. Just build
something great. Yeah. It's not a
network is not made at the cocktail
party.
There's kind of an anti pattern with AI
right now where you can go too far in
one direction and become the type of
person who's like I have 50 AI agents
running my company and I have a seuite
of AI that tells me what to do every
day. I think that's the wrong approach.
That's just like you're making a slot
machine basically. Slop, not slot. I
think it's important to know what you
should be using AI for and what you
shouldn't. Like keeping the human touch
in the important parts and automating
the repetitive things is the way to go.
I always see the best users as being
super AI enabled, not replacing their
entire job with AI. But it's it's a
slippery slope. Like it's everyone on
Twitter is like, I automated everything
and I I don't do I work one hour a week
and I make $10 million on the weekend
with my SAS app. Like most of that is
just marketing. they're lying to you.
Uh, for the most part, like I think
there's a lot of uh course bros, I like
to call them, uh, like people who sell
the dream and all these people on
Twitter are kind of inspired by the fact
that I could make 30,000 this weekend if
I just copy this workflow and and
comment and then they'll give me the the
recipe. I guarantee that's never worked.
They're they're shilling the vision of
productivity without actually offering
anything [music] novel. I think that the
value comes from when you apply AI to
something you understand deeply. If
there was some magic solution that would
make you $30,000 in a weekend, they
wouldn't be giving it to you on Twitter.
The most productive people who are
actually generating the most value, it
normally comes from taking something you
really understand, applying AI to it,
wherever you see fit, and then [music]
just scaling from there. I think it's
cuz I I see the same patterns emerging.
Like whenever there's a hype bubble,
like with crypto or with NFTTS or with
AI, there's a section of [music] the
community that's a little vulnerable. I
think easily persuaded and convinced
that something will save them from
whatever [music] situation they're in.
you can sell hope really easily. So I
think there's a lot of people online who
take advantage of that and make content
that is just fictitious. There's a
category of like entrepreneurs like
entrepreneurs but a want entrepreneur
might be a negative term but someone who
thinks that they can just build a
business by like with a single click you
know like [music] it's effortless
because I bought this course I now have
the the recipe to making a million
dollars a year on as a side hustle but
you're selling this vision of like
skipping the hard work cut shortcutting
directly to the value which will never
happen. it'll never work. Uh, but for
the person who's selling you that
course, they're going to make a ton of
money. They they found the way to print
money. Basically,
I only automate the things I really
understand. Like, if you're automating
something you don't understand, it's
just going to be a slot machine. If
you're using AI to do something you
don't actually understand at all, often
times you're creating just uncertainty.
Like, if you're using AI to code and you
don't know how to code at all, you're
making malware at the end of the day.
Like, it'll it'll come back to bite you.
And vibe coding can only go so far. Same
thing with automating workflows. Like if
you're trying to automate something you
could never do yourself or you don't
understand, you're going to create
something that's pretty poor. So I think
I I apply AI to speed myself up and take
the things I do understand, do it way
faster so I can learn more things and
like grow as a person, but I'm never
[music] like trying to shortcut
understanding something or like
expanding my skill set by like having AI
just replace me and and do things for
[music] me. It's possible that the last
generation of great engineers has been
born because there was this era of
actually needing to understand what's
going on and then getting accelerated by
AI. But now people can skip the
understanding part and just accelerate
with AI. I think there's going to be a
like a few a much smaller community of
people who actually use AI as a learning
tool and they understand the
fundamentals, use it as like a a teacher
to really grasp what's going on. But
it's a slippery slope as well because
it's so easy just to not want to
understand why something works cuz it
just like your website worked or the
feature did what you wanted but you
didn't take the time to like really dig
into why why it worked or why it didn't
or what knock-on effects this could
have. So I [music] think there will be a
a bigger split in the people who are
truly exceptional versus the people who
are not. Because if you can actually
have the determination to like pause,
try to understand the problem, have AI
teach you the things you don't
understand, you'll become exceptional
even faster [music] than before and then
the average person will just kind of
fall to the slop.
Almost everyone we've hired is through
network. A lot of people we hired were
actually customers. So like our customer
from Instacart quit his job and joined
us. Our customer from Web Flow quit his
job and joined us. Someone from Shopify
quit their job and joined us. They
already had conviction. Like they love
the platform so much that they decided
to drop everything and contribute to the
mission. It's a really like fun way to
hire because the only thing you really
have as a startup is the optimism in
general. Like you need to be excited to
come to work every day and and be the
one proving everyone wrong for when they
say like, "Oh, why won't this company do
this or why won't [music] this big
company just steamroll you?" But these
people are already bought in. Like they
use the tool every day. So they love
what you're doing already and they're
like they see the vision. So, it's a
very quick transition. You just have to
figure out the details of how you
onboard them. It's like dating in a way,
like you have to be the person that
someone would want to date. [music] You
can't just like beg someone to date you,
just like you can't beg someone to join
your company. So, you have to build
something amazing and have traction
[music] to make the best people on earth
want to join you. But it all starts with
just like doing it. You have to start
somewhere. My co-founder only joined
because I had a version of the product
that was working in the early days.
Like, I was demoing the first version of
it and he got excited by that. So, he
joined. You have to build something
exceptional. We're having a lot of fun
at Gum Loop. Like every every day
there's no one like being told to stay
late. There's no hour you have to show
up or hour you have to leave. Everyone
is just kind of all we're all equally
excited about the mission [music] and
love what we're doing. And a big filter
for how I hire people is like, do I
actually want to spend all my time with
this person? Could I hang out with them
24/7? That has just kind of like
compounded over time. And now we have a
big group of people that are all really
well adjusted, really fun to work with,
ambitious, excited, uh, intelligent. The
more people you hire like that, the more
exciting it gets for everyone. So it
just kind of like the momentum builds
[music] in this direction and and people
love what they're doing. I think there's
a million reasons to not build every
startup. Like it's it's very easy to
hear an idea and say like what's the
moat? Why won't X company do this? Why
won't Y company do that? I think the
people who are like really asking
themselves that and obsessing over those
questions will never build anything. You
end up just working for a big player and
being a pawn in their game. But if you
try things and try to prove just like
take a risk and try to prove other
people wrong, you'll end up somewhere
that people are like how how did you get
there? how are you leading this company
that so many people use? And the answer
was just like, you tried and it worked.
And when it didn't work, you tried
again. I could have on day one explained
to myself a hundred reasons why Zapier
would do this better than us or why
OpenAI and all these big players would
crush us and then no one would be using
Gum Loop. We wouldn't have created
anything new. I think the biggest
quality [music] that makes a founder
start founding something is thinking
that they can do it. Like you will never
start a company if you don't think
you're going to be the person to do it.
So it just takes this blind confidence.
It's pretty exciting just how much
someone can do when they think they can
do it.